In the last lecture I told you about the basics of lot of migrations but we only explored the migrations
that are created out of the box by the lava itself.
We haven't created our own migration yet so let's do that now.
In this lecture.
So first you'll need to open the terminal let's clear it and run.
Peach bee artisan so you can see we have a handful of commands here and this is really our time saving
thing to know that you can generate a lot of larval classes using the make commands into one of those
is make migration so you could see that those migrations are pretty long classes and creating them by
hand can be cumbersome and you don't do not have to do that all by yourself.
So the easiest way is to use the make migration so let's enlarge the terminal again clear this and run
peach bee artisan make migration after which you will specify the name of the new migration.
So we would like to create a blog post stable so let's write.
Create blog blog posts table.
So what I did here is not only given a name to a migration but it also allows it allows me to get some
boilerplate code for creating a table.
So this keyboard create in the name of the migration and the blog post table makes a lot about understand.
What are you trying to achieve.
So let's try to run this command OK.
It is created.
Now let's open it.
You can see that it created our new file with the class create blog posts table inside it.
And it generate generated up and down methods for us and the boilerplate code is schema.
Create blog posts.
So this is what we intended to do we wanted to create blog posts table.
So there are additional ways you can do this.
So let's take a look at the terminal and instead of specifying it inside the name.
Now let's try to generate some random migration like log posts something.
Now it is created.
And if you would open this file you can see that it is empty.
So larval didn't know what are you trying to do.
So now let's go back to terminal again.
If you would do this like this blog post something too.
So the name doesn't matter.
You can add an additional flag called create and the argument to this is the name of the table.
So if we would execute it like that using create blog posts.
Now let's see what was created.
So that's our brand new migration.
And it also contains the boilerplate for creating tables.
So it is up to you how you want to do it.
I prefer to use the Create table name underscore table naming to my migrations because it just saves
me time and I get the boilerplate code out of the box OK just creating the migration file doesn't change
anything inside the database so we can safely delete those free files and let's really run it correctly
with how we initially wanted that.
So create blog posts.
Table OK so now we have our migration and let's open it so notice the upcoming.
As I said it is specifying what changes should be made to the database schema.
So we are using their schema for Sade and I know I haven't talked about facades yet.
I will do in a bit.
So don't worry about that just now.
So this object schema has a method to create which you specify the table name into which you would like
to create.
And it accepts a second argument which is a closure.
So it is our function without a name which gets passed the instance of the blueprint object and this
blueprint object has some handy methods which allow us to create some columns on that table.
So this is how we work we use schema create specified a table name and then inside this closure we specify
what columns should be added so inside disclosure you wouldn't typically specify the column names and
types as you water for example in a query for you my sequel database you would use this methods from
the blueprint object and by default it adds to it is increments and timestamp.
So I invite you to check the Lara Val Cheat Sheet which I published on github and I talked about it
a couple of times and here I specify some typical column types and also include some inside this document
and explain what they are doing so we can see that the table increments creates an outer incrementing
unsigned integer column.
So a typical column of the type I.D. It is a unique identifier of the row inside the table.
And this handy method from Lara Val the timestamps which is very useful and it is actually built in
into lava to support those two columns that it will create and this will create two columns sanctuary
the notable columns of the type timestamp the created at and updated at which you can use to put the
date of when particular row was created inside the database and also when it was updated.
So this is what this initial migration would do.
It would create this table and those three columns.
So let's run it.
Now we can go into the terminal and around peach bee artisan migrate so it runs successfully.
And now let's go to the p HP my admin or any other client you're using refresh and you see there is
a blog posts table.
Let's go to the structure.
So there is a idea which is our primary key.
It is unsigned integer and we have to timestamp columns created out and updated at now.
As I said before sometimes there are situations where you aren't happy with the changes that you've
applied to the database and you would like to roll back the change.
So of course deleting deleting this file would do nothing.
You have to run a command.
So let's take a look at the terminal and the command for this speech be artisan migrate rollback and
it will roll back the most recent migration that we have executed.
You can see the output it is rolling back.
This migration and what it does it it is calling what's inside the down method.
So this would drop the blog post table if it exists now let's check if that's the case.
Refresh this.
And yes there is no blog posts tables so this was successful.
Now mind that rolling back does not prevent you from rewriting this migration again because if you would
like to run migrate again let's do that.
It will create the blog post table again.
So if you really want to get rid of the changes that you've made because it's actually not working for
you first you have to roll back and then you would probably have to delete this file because otherwise
it would be always executed
now our blog post stable is pretty empty.
It only has a D and the timestamp columns.
So now let's try to modify this table to generate a new migration will do P2P artisan make migration
and we can call it art title content to blog posts table
and equivalent of this because now let's take a look at this migration.
So it happens to know that we want to do something to the blog posts stable as you see the schema table
this.
So this time we do not have schema create we have schema tables.
So this is executing this is the way to do it for tables that already exists.
So we want to modify the table and the same you can see inside the down method.
So Lara VO also picked up that we want to do something to the blog post table but if you would give
a name that doesn't reflect this.
So you wouldn't use blog posts table you can at this suffix table blog posts.
So if this name Art title content to blog post table would be something not meaningful it wouldn't contain
blog posts table then adding the suffix would also generate this boilerplate code.
But let's say that for now we are.
We are good
and let's go back to our migration and see how we can add new columns.
So we are getting past this blueprint object which has some handy methods.
One of them is string.
So this means we would like to create a new column that would reflect the type var chart inside your
database.
So we'll call it title and the second.
Second field we would like to add is content since content can be more than 255 characters which is
default for var char we use text.
Now let's go back to the down method and now we would have to specify that we would like to drop specific
columns.
We can drop columns by using the table drop column and specify our column name.
So if you would specify title next you can just copy this and paste again to drop the content column.
But additionally this method accepts an array.
So instead of calling it two times we can pass that argument as an array and pass all the column names
that we would like to drop.
So this is our immigration.
Now let's run inside the terminal peach pea artisan migrate so it is successful and refresh our database
so we have our blog post table and inside the structure you can see that we have the title and the content.
Now if you run peach pea artisan migrate Roebuck we have rolled back our most recent change and columns
are deleted.
So let's migrate again and we have our columns back inside the table.